So, our desktop product is perfect for
consultants and smaller in-house or
agency teams. If you want to check that
out, please go ahead and download our
free 14-day trial from the website. Uh
there's a link in the chat for that one.
And uh we also have Cyborg Cloud, which
is our solution for larger in-house
teams and agencies, which starts quite
small, but scales all the way up to
enterprise. So, this is a great option
if you've been using one of the big
cloud crawlers and seen your price
ratchet up year on year. So if you have
any interest in site cloud, please feel
free to book in a call with me. We can
have a chat about your needs and help
figure out if site might be a good fit
for you. Uh you can head over to our
book aer demo page for that which should
be in the chat. Uh I'm just checking
some people can't hear me. Can everybody
else can hear me? That'll do. Okay. So
Ray, you can answer all the questions.
Um so uh today's webinar will span three
central themes, right? We want to talk
about content strategy for LLMs,
technical accessibility of content for
LLMs, and how we go about tracking
visibility in
LLMs. Um, and I just want to highlight
the second one of those for a minute
because actually there's a range of
things you can do with Sitebomb to help
you check how accessible your content is
to LLMs. And so my colleague Maruna is
running a site masterclass training
webinar a week today. Uh link is in the
chat for that one as well. So that's at
the same start time as this one 4 pm uh
BST. So get yourself registered on that
and learn how to do all this stuff
inside. Uh cool. So we can stop sharing
I think this slide Jojo whenever you're
ready on that one. And uh we'll just got
a couple of final bits of housekeeping
and we can crack on. So we are recording
the webinar today. Everyone always asks.
Um so we'll be sending the recording out
tomorrow. So don't worry if you're not
able to make it for the whole thing. And
we will have some time at the end of the
webinar for your questions. So now
please put them in the Q&A tab next to
the chat. Don't put them in the actual
chat itself which people everybody
always does. There's a separate tab on
the left hand side for Q&A underneath
the chat bit. So if you haven't got any
of your own questions, you can upvote
other people's questions in there if you
can't think of any
yourself. Um right, so housekeeping is
done. Let's kick off the webinar proper
and let me introduce our guests today.
First up, we've got Elena Ciss. Uh,
fortunately, she needs no
introduction. An absolute powerhouse and
living legend in the SEO world. If
you're watching this webinar and don't
know who Elena is already, they advise
you to come out from that rock you've
been hiding under. You can ask you can
ask who's a lady. Yeah, you can ask
who's a lady. Yeah. Uh, and I actually
attended the excellent hive Manchester
conference last week and watched the
latest presentation on the state of AI
overviews and the impact of LLMs.
Unsurprisingly, she's all over this
stuff. So, it is really great to have
you with us, Alena. Thank you very much
for having me. I really appreciate it.
And next, I'd like to introduce Ray
Griezelhuber. Hey, was that better? That
was good. That was good. You nailed it.
Yeah. Ry is the founder and CEO of
Demandphere, a SER analytics platform
built for e-commerce and enterprise SEO
teams. He's been working at the
intersection of search and technology
for over a decade and has become a
leading voice on how LLM and AI tools
are reshaping the SEO landscape. Thanks
for joining us, Ray. Thank you for
having me. So, welcome to everybody.
Thank you all so much for joining us and
let's kick off with the
questions. So,
uh the first section again will be
focused around how we kind of decide
what content LLM should access. So the
first question I've got is how should
SEOs think differently when creating
content for LLMs versus traditional
search engines? Uh Elena, do you want to
start? I I think that at the end of the
day that depends a lot on your business
model, right? What what is content for
you and how do you create content
already for your website? for many um
websites. Let's say content itself is a
is the core area of their business model
and that is how they make money like
like the the um through ads through
through affiliates right and and that is
their core service let's say the the
information that they share through uh
research analysis and so on right so uh
for those type of businesses this is a
very tricky time and um potentially like
one of those people whole changes and
because we have had so far a very fine
balance with Google uh the way that the
usual search paradigm or the current
search paradigm was working is like okay
they are the middleman pretty much and
they the you will allow them to crawl
and access all of all as much
information or content uh just for them
to surf surface this information and and
refer uh potential clients users traffic
when the content itself is not the core
value. Again, this content is show like
it's is performs pretty much like a
salesperson uh showcasing explaining
your offering, your actual product or
service. Um that will be only access if
they pay online or offline or through
other type of methods that h where the
conversion actually happens, right? But
when the content itself is the value,
right? And now with
LLMs, the referral is not so
straightforward as it was or it has been
so far with traditional search results.
Then is when the tricky part comes and
when I can definitely see how uh many of
these publishers or creators can very
well question if they should allow LLMs
to access their information for training
and and if so up to what point because
of course they don't they wouldn't want
to block entirely and not be showcased
in in in any way out there but what is
the fine balance right like And I from
that regard what I will hear balances on
one hand potentially um so far thinking
about for which queries uh there's
actual value for them to be found as a
as a source of information or as an
expert of a certain vertical or area and
so on and to which other point you you
don't want LLMs to actually uh get
access to core areas or core insights or
research uh for which you will also um
actually request something extra right
or you need to provide to something
extra and this is where I I can
definitely see the business model
changing uh quite a bit and and many
publications are already doing
additional moves of trying to make
agreements with with uh bigger players
right like and for access for
information on one hand then on the
other hand um also like less
sophisticated and potentially more basic
configuration with Google so far with
payw wall in in information. The the
problem here is that we as internet and
web users we have been already too too
used let's say to free access to
information so far and and uh we have
pretty much overlooked that well
information and content production
especially if it's expert uh driven one
like it has it has a value and traffic.
Sorry that I'm extending as uh too far
potentially but if your business is not
the content itself it's very
straightforward in my you want to
surface your your landing pages your
solution pages your your PDPs your PLPS
as much as possible because you want to
endorse and you want to refer those
users and eventually the conversion will
happen on your website yes or yes right
uh at least as the web is built so far
right let's see in a few But as it is
right now. Um, however, if you're a
publisher, if your core service or
product is the content itself, there
should be a further strategy here like
exactly like or not exactly the same but
very similar to or comparable to the one
that you define at some point in the
past with pay walls, right? what should
I give versus um uh that that that is
actually uh beneficial for me uh versus
what in exchange and up to which point I
should request uh a registration or or
that that for which there should be
something in exchange provided right
indeed.
I mean and like you mentioned in there
like um obviously publishers there is
a potentially a way forward with
payrolls. I think
affiliates you know like the recipe
bloggers, travel blog, all that lot. I
the way I see it is is they could they
could all just disappear to Tik Tok or
somewhere where they can build a
platform that's not going to be it.
What's the point in in in living living
here? Honestly, you you really well did
a really good observation a couple of
years ago and or even more three years
ago. It was before Lance and all of this
revolution of uh that started with Chad
GBT. Uh I went to an event uh affiliate
event very focused on affiliates and I
was one of the very few SEO speakers at
that event and um I was very curious
because I hadn't I I I don't work with
publishers usually. I work with uh
e-commerce marketplaces SAS and so I was
very curious about okay what is the
latest trend what are you doing with EAT
and all of that right the the the
helpful content update at that time was
already a thing etc and they told me
look at this point the more advanced and
mature e-commerce we have stopped
relying on organic search as the main
traffic channel and nowadays we have
private to influencers uh to to Tik Tok
to Instagram to YouTubers and so on. So
yeah, makes complete sense to do that
further. Yeah, it totally does. So uh
Ray then let's think about the um
outside of of the the kind of business
businesses that Elena just just covered
in that first answer. Let's think about
some of the other types of businesses,
e-commerce, maybe SAS, all those those
sorts of businesses. What types of
content like do we think are more
valuable to LLMs? Is this informational,
commercial or brand focused?
Um, from a pure LLM perspective, what
we've seen, um, especially in the way
that we've been, uh, starting to gather
data on this has been theformational
content is definitely the most easily
represented. Um, probably like the
transactional commercial content would
be far less represented. um and the type
of responses that come back because
essentially what's happening is you have
this new layer of mediation between the
user who's doing the searching and
researching and their eventual
destination and uh the LLMs are
basically acting as like this uh process
to synthesize a lot of different
research stages that we would have gone
through previously. Yeah. And
soformational content from that regard
especially if it's very easy to include
in these types of results is going to be
definitely over represented.
I'm wondering if so far we have seen
actually much moreformational type of
queries because this is because of the
current interface that we have had right
but in the in the future like like it it
took my attention how uh Chad GPT has
actually really like prioritized
shopping integration h even if they say
that right now they pretty much perform
as a as um bridge that doesn't even
rebrank the the the products that they
get from feeds and so on. They are
definitely pushing for their and
providing ways to uh for Mayor Chance to
integrate with them. And I can
definitely see this being like too good
to not try to at least get a little bit
of a share of that market. And uh
coincidentally yesterday in the AI
Google IO um announcement uh one of the
big announcements that they did was that
they seem to
um will start testing a new shopping
integration in AI mode that seem to from
the demo that they did uh better
personalize the interface of of the
output. is something that connects
better with a commercial uh
transactional intent rather
thanformational one. I was when I when I
when I saw the current the current
format of AI overviews for example, I
was like like that they will need to
reward this to make it actually uh to
connect better with a a shopping intent,
right? that is much more aligned with um
the product packs and and and uh the
clickable product knowledge panel and so
on. So, so yes, let's take a look at how
it goes. I I expect that there is a much
higher um shopping intent in the future
once that they start better presenting
and better showcasing and providing a
better experience for this other type of
search too. So, it's a little bit of
like chicken and egg in this type of
situation too. Mhm. If they're able to
really capture the financial uh
transaction smoothly right now, I think
of it as kind of being dominated by
Amazon and maybe a few, you know, of the
top e-commerce providers. But if Google
is able to insert themselves into that
credit card transaction flow
effectively, I think that's going to
definitely have a big impact and lead to
exactly what you're talking about.
Yeah, for sure. Um, cool. So,
um, is there a framework that people can
use to prioritize which content we
actually want LMS to access and which we
want them to keep out?
Um, so are you talking about a technical
level or kind of just more of like a a
content? I'm thinking more strategically
like what Yeah. How how do you figure
out like right we we do want them to
ingest this stuff but actually all these
this marginal value stuff over here. How
do you how do you figure out where that
that lies?
I mean I it's a very big problem right
now for some companies because some
companies are having this internal
debate about how much they want their
content to even be ingested. Um to me
the cat's out of the bag. It's not going
back in. And um the LLMs, they're going
to ingest what they want to. Um I know
we're going to talk about probably some
technical sides, you know, of this as
well, but uh at the end of the day,
they're going to get what they want to
get. And you can try to payw wall it all
you want. Um but that's just going to
end up hurting your own visibility in
the long term. And so fortunately or
unfortunately depending on your business
model and how you look at things, I
think it's safer to assume that either
your content or a competitor content is
going to be ingested. And so it's going
to come down to whether or not you view
it as strategic to be included in those
results and prominent in those results.
Um I think any question of like do you
want to be in there or not want to be in
there is kind of in the rearview mirror.
I completely agree with Ray. And then
the there is an additional question
here. I think that we we're just at the
beginning of this whole journey, right?
So realistically
um it's true that Google has started
already the conversation with the
biggest publication, the legal players
and and uh for agreements regarding
licensing of access uh information for
training etc. Um and and then we asked
ourselves like what about the indie
players? What about those are highly
specialized personalized and and um and
and the future of all of this in the
incentive but for creators in order to
continue creating and so on. So again, I
believe that we're all only at the
beginning. I remembered there were some
when all of this started happening and
um and uh being um launch copilot they
they they started saying that they were
actually having conversation to see the
via programs that everybody could apply
to in order to get some something back
from being shown in uh in uh in LLM's
answers or a share of the ads or
something like that. So I think that
this needs to evolve right and and there
should be programs or there should be
some sort of methods um that should be
created in order to split the the
revenues and incentivize and give
something back to the to the creators
and the publications in case that there
would be less direct traffic, right? uh
realistically for the queries and the
prompts and the questions are more
transactional and uh and and
commercially
oriented the conversion itself even if
it doesn't happen in the very long term
future in the actual website and it's
provided as an extra option in the LLM
interface directly um because the
integrations have has come that far fine
because the actual goal of the business
is to sell anyway that product or
service independently where the
transaction happens in any case. Uh but
the problem of yeah creators and
publications is the actual value is to
showcase the information in the first
place.
It makes complete sense if it comes to
that h that uh I guess then in the
following months I do expect that the
more and more they start referring more
traffic and become much more widely used
because we need to understand that so
far honestly like in 99% of the cases
the websites that I see they is 1% of
referral traffic is is one 2% is
increasing a lot in the latest months
but I I can understand why for most
might not be necessarily
number one concern right now, right? But
it might be in the next few months
because it's increasing a lot, right?
But but uh I do expect that
LLM's start taking more initiative there
are more initiative like that because
it's only fair and is otherwise they
will I mean imagine like if everybody
start blocking the their content to LLM
good luck generating good good answers
in the first place, right? So there's
that. Then another things that do I do
expect is that and I actually posted
yesterday after the the AI mode official
announcement in the US. Perfect. You
will you are releasing my uh AI mode uh
to all users in the US. I do expect now
a report in the Google search console.
Thank you very much. And uh showcasing
what is my activity there, how my
website is showcased there. And the same
here's the thing we're asking this a lot
to Google but let's let's well
realistically and we ask to Google
because they are like the mature player
in the market and the one that has the
current share uh uh highest market share
in the market in search but they were
not the ones that changed the status
quo. It was it was Chad GBT and thank
you very much OpenAI. I would like also
to have a some sort of uh search console
or interface or other land console to
understand how you are accessing my
website to give me further control
pretty much the Google search console
but apply to chat GPT2 so every single
player should be doing this again
because we're very early in the market
they still don't I do expect that that
they provide this sort of additional
visibility and control of what's going
on in their in their platforms to every
website out
Yeah. All right. So, I want to I agree
with you, Ray. Right. The cat is out the
bank. It's not going back in. Right. But
I do want to challenge this idea
that sort of there's this opportunity
with AI and there's there's there's
nothing but good to come of it. Like we
should all want to be in there with
everything at all times. Like we spend
so much of our time from Google's
perspective going, "Well, actually,
let's no index these pages, right? These
pages are duplicate. that's canonicalize
them like we put these technical checks
and measures in place on a basis of the
the value of the content whether it
deserves to be valuable to be indexed or
not. Now, are we saying basically that
when it comes to LLMs, go wild, go crawl
whatever you want, ingest whatever you
want, it's all going to be valuable at
the end of the day, or should we
actually be going, well, there is still
a similar thought process to this
content deserves to be ingested and and
available through rag to LLM or or do we
just go, you know, crack on, do what you
want? Well, um, and actually you're
you're probably the one of the top
experts on this question on the Google
side of things because, uh, a lot of the
incentive from the when I when we work
with customers basically, you know, two
or three years ago, they hit this point
where crawl budgets were getting reduced
so dramatically that they were forced to
uh, kind of curate how their site was
being indexed more. Before that point,
um, I wasn't really seeing any idea that
customers cared about reducing the
amount of content that was being indexed
by Google one way or another. It was
basically just like what's going to be
the most relevant. We don't really know.
The funnel's all over the place.
Customer journeys all over the place.
So, we're going to just try to be
visible for anything. And so, I think
the situation today, if you look at how
often the LLMs are crawling, you know,
we know that Chat GPT's, you know, bot
is very aggressive right now. So, it's
like they're going to they're going to
just crawl as much as they can. Um, so
is I think the question is is there some
strategic incentive to say I want you to
ingest or surface this content versus
this over here? I don't really care
about this over here. I my personal
feeling is that we're not really there
yet because there isn't really any sort
of semantic relevance at a site level
that um OpenAI and the others would care
about in terms of saying like this is
the most semantically relevant content.
We do see Google doing that now of
course um and because they're trying to
incentivize site owners to create, you
know, semantically oriented clusters
that are somewhat similar to each other
and on topic. Um, it my my impression of
how the LLM bots are functioning right
now is that it's still pretty early in
the game for them to do. I think they're
just doing everything they can to build
as large of an index of the web as they
can.
Yeah. And I I think I'm going to invoke
the second use of attendance today
because I think there are certainly some
businesses that would strategically not
want certain aspects of their site to be
ingested by LLM. Let me give you an
example of a customer site that deals
with legal advice, right? they are
legally required to keep archival
records of, you know, old legislation
that was in place, you know, 10 years
ago, right? But is not up to- date
current legislation. If LLMs are going
to get into that stuff, they could start
spouting off all sorts of, you know,
nonsense, right? So there definitely
will be some instances like that where
from a business perspective they are not
going to want to enable um LLMs to to
crawl absolutely everything ingest
absolutely everything but then so I
think that's that's that's a clear area
so because I want to move on to the next
section on technical accessibility but I
also want to come up um and talk about
uh so there was a a post uh that I saw
yesterday a couple days ago actually um
uh from from somebody who works at
profound right Um, and they had said
that that OpenAI was hitting their site
12 times more than Google and that
they'd seen it on other like their
customer sites as well. And then like in
the graph that he shared, Perplexi Bot
was second and then and then that was
even double Google bot, right? So this
sort of bandwidth toll that that this um
LLMs could exact on sites like this does
not feel sustainable and it's you know
it's it's not econ eco-friendly in the
slightest you know um but it's also
going to start costing companies money
right um already costing companies money
so I I I do want to address that aspect
as well like I don't think it's all just
sunshine and roses, right? Um I is there
is there an argument that some some you
know you mentioned crawl budget before
like the sort of AI crawl budget we we
should be trying to manage in some way
and and you know what realistically we
we complain about Google and the Google
bot and so on but realistically we now
we understand how sophisticated they
have become so far when calling the web
and uh and uh we can see Cloudflare uh
also sharing data publicly about the
different bots
out there. So I believe that they should
actually start like caching better
rendering JavaScript because we're
talking about when we talk about the
real differences or one of the main
bigger differences that we had assumed
so far that uh yes uh clients are render
JavaScript as long as it follows certain
best practices it can uh uh get rendered
quickly and not necessarily use at scale
for very core content etc. it could work
uh realistically well. But now with um
most of this new LLMs uh coming and and
um it was Versel that did uh uh this
research um um along with the the I
think it was the Miracle Force uh for
that merch sorry is that they did it and
they it it showed very clearly that uh
it was the uh OpenAI but that didn't do
it for example there and it's the most
prominent LLM out there right so anyway
do we we it's important that we take a
look at the CDN's or lo files uh data to
understand um well how how how big we we
are uh getting hit uh out there um on
one hand and and then on the other hand
a little bit of regarding the access
right like if certain actually certain
areas that we didn't care about and we
allowed the Google bot to call it all
because it didn't matter, right? Well,
we'll need to rethink that approach.
Yeah. Um opportunely and and pay uh
closer attention to to what the the
other bots do. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Okay.
So let's suppose then either the
business case I mentioned before or the
sort of bandwidth concern
uh was presented to um to to a a website
owner. What technical methods exist to
like restrict
uh LLM crawlers from from accessing
content?
So, I'm not I'd love to hear your
thoughts on this, too, um, Patrick,
because I know you're seeing a lot, but,
um, I'm not seeing a lot of evidence
right now, at least that the Lon bots
are respecting things like robots.ext
um, as a format. Um, again, I think
their incentives are in completely the
different direction right now, uh, to
just get as much as possible.
Um so really you're talking about like
um server level reverse proxy level
things that you can do to technically
physically you block them from seeing
certain things you know and again that
becomes going back to the strategic
question of what you want them to see
versus not.
Yeah, I there I mean there's certainly
ways like in like lots of lots of
websites these days on things like
Cloudflare, you can go in on the
um the W, you know, the the firewall
rules basically and restrict certain
bots if you don't don't want them in
there. Um what about uh the Google's uh
Google extended? So slightly different
obviously because it's not it's not the
LLM callers. I don't know if we cons
concern that much about Google and how
they're doing things because we feel
like we're on a on a on a clearer plane
with them about what they're trying to
do.
Um have has anyone seen any of their you
know relative have you seen any of your
clients using Google extended at all as
a as an additional uh let's say with
additional rules or something
specifically for them? No. Um I haven't
um I had a client who wanted to on the
other hand more granularly to not being
showcasing AI overviews and uh and yes
they were playing with
the not with the no snippets but it was
with the max snippets um understanding a
little bit the implications of it and we
played with it and we did a few tests
with a few resources a fewformational
content that they didn't want to to be
showcased and it worked uh effectively
uh but not blocking the whole thing and
not through the token indeed for for
learning purposes not not in that
regard. Yeah. Yeah. I mean so yeah and
like no so no snippets the thing that
prevents content from being used for
Google as a direct input for AI over AI
mode right and so we have insight um we
can we you can detect that through the
indexibility report
and I don't know if I've ever seen one
in the wild that that people are
actually using this stuff like the some
of these controls exist. It's all very
new, but I I I don't think that nobody
will want to use the no snippet because
that pretty much prevents all snippets
to be gone and I wouldn't recommend
anybody to do that. But in the case of
the batch snippets, the the there was
this case of okay um they also were this
type of player that didn't care were not
necessarily that happy to be showcased
in future zets because this is what will
end up preventing if you play with it
like how much how many characters how
much do you want Google to to to take
right and and playing with that saying
okay it's the worst consequence is that
we are not shown with a features kn
um to avoid also preventing our our
content to be shown or this type of
content to be shown in AI overviews.
Let's go with it. And it and it w it
actually worked. Uh by the way, but the
thing is and this is my point. They were
not shown in the AI overviews for these
queries. They were still shown in the
first or second position in the
traditional search results. But since
Google was showcasing an AI overview at
the top, there were other players
showcased there. So what's the point?
So, and this is the type of conversation
that I believe is well, it's healthy to
to to discuss with your clients at the
end of the day. Even if they have some
type of policies, whatever, great. But
they need to understand the implications
that even if they decide to know to not
move forward, it's like Ray mentioned
before is like the cat is out of the
bag. If you don't do it, your
competitors will anyway, unless you're a
monopoly and you have control and you're
the leader in your market. Sorry, but
but it will be a little bit difficult.
Yes. Speaking of monopolies, right? But
but yes, but yes, indeed. Yeah.
Um so do you guys have any thoughts on
llm.text? Um and I I feel like this the
narrative on this changes almost daily.
Like there was a study I think last week
from Chris Green who'd been
uh crawled the like the whole Majestic
Million to see who who who implemented
it and he found like a hundred sites. Um
very few right John Müller came out and
compared it to the keywords metatag or
something right like however yesterday I
think I saw something um where like
anthropic I think was supporting it now.
So it feels like it's changing. It feels
like that. So the only argument right
that I can find to for it to make sense
is that what we mentioned before um what
you said later that that the major LLMs
aren't rendering JavaScript. So if you
have a JavaScript heavy site and you
know the development cycle for actually
moving to serverside rendering um would
be too heavy to
actually sort of re represent the data
to LLMs without requiring them to um to
crawl up. So I I guess that I mean I
want I want to talk about LLMs but also
I want to I want to I want to know if
you've seen any shift in how companies
are approaching rendering. So kind of
twofold question there. Um Ray Ray, what
are your thoughts on llm.thc before we
get on the next bit? Yeah, I mean I I
don't really see anybody using it
either. Um as a developer myself, I
think it's a cool idea. Um I love the
idea of being able to you know not have
to parse out a bunch of HTML to get um
you know the content of the page. I
think we all do. But um I I just don't
really see anyone that's being used
right now. Um it it'll come down to I
think you know with Google the advantage
they had over the years enforcing these
types of new standards was that they
were essentially the main gatekeeper for
traffic on the internet. And so they
basically said if you want to be visible
uh in that gateway then you're going to
do this thing and if you're not then you
won't. And with the LLM bots aside from
what Google has you know we're just not
there yet um to a latest point you know
the traffic isn't there yet. And so they
don't really have the ability to say
like this is how it's going to be and if
they're not interested in doing it then
what's the point you know at this point
the question around render JavaScript
rendering is really interesting. Um I
don't you kind of stopped halfway there
but I'd love to hear what your question
was on that too. Yeah. So the the my my
question really regarding JavaScript
rendering is if we have seen you know
since this research has been made public
and people are starting to realize that
it's not it's not just uh potentially a
problem for Google that it's actually a
major problem for LLMs um whether there
has been any kind of a shift in how
companies are actually approaching
rendering.
I mean it's just more expensive you know
it depends on on from the LLM side and
for any crawler you know how much money
you want to spend on rendering
JavaScript um we are seeing I think the
whole react nextjs trend over the last
few years uh did bite a couple of uh not
a couple a lot of companies u you know
where they for some reason thought
client side rendering on a very heavy
faceted searchtype site would be a good
idea um obviously that's not a great
idea so uh people are rearchitecting on
that basis and I think you know the more
server side rendering that's happening
as a result of that I think it'll make
it easier for the LLM to consume that
you know from that regard as well I have
seen indeed a couple of u major let's
say uh marketplaces/ e-commerce websites
uh realize uh in the last few years that
the the decision of um go going into the
that path because of how easy it is with
this new framework right yeah uh ended
up backlashing and spending a lot in
rendering add-ons let's say totally and
and and and now with LM that is still is
is now not because they are not going to
be found out there at all and their
business going going to go downhill it's
not the case because of the market share
that they have right now but it should
be an additional consideration for sure
to let's say bulletproof a little bit
more the visibility in the future when
these are better um use uh in in any
case and is an additional consideration
100%. I have just seen this shift
thankfully to about okay like next like
next couple of years glance is to go the
other way around and and do the right
thing what they should have been done in
in the first place let's say. Yeah. Yep.
Well f fingers crossed that's what
happens. Um yeah that would that would
be get I mean like for that to be the
the reason why LLM LLM.txt txt gets gets
adopted would be you just you know the
wrong way around right so um okay so
let's move on then to uh I want to see I
I want to talk about tracking um and so
you already mentioned um Ry that that
there's data you're you're you're
tracking with in demand sphere so please
do tell us about that um I I want to
know like what current methods or tools
um we've got for tracking where and how
content shows up uh in LLM responses
sure yeah so that probably everyone here
on the call is aware of basically the
two modes of how LM are going to be
returning uh answers to people. You have
something that's coming out of the
foundational model where they've done
all this pre-training on everything and
if the answer is in that model and you
happen to be performing well within that
model and the way that those training uh
processes place then your visibility can
look good and then there is the live
retrieval um approach and so the
question from the live retrieval side of
things is uh how is that happening? what
sources are the LLM using when they're
trying to retrieve content uh you know
for people and so going with the example
of chat GPT because it's you know at
least in this kind of new you know mode
it's kind of the elephant in the room
right now
um the very early on there is a lot of
talk about how they basically had this
partnership with Bing um to get a lot of
their results via the Bing API and as
far as I'm aware they still do have that
partnership um and so the question
became pretty quickly well okay
um is it just a matter of appearing in
Bing and is it going to be a one to one
correlation between visibility and being
to chat GPT um and you know that becomes
a question of data what what data are
you looking at what's your data set
who's your audience all of those
different things so you probably just
add another uh counter to the it depends
you know for today but
um we've got it okay there we go I see a
live counter going here too So um but
what we ended up seeing and the approach
we took was okay the most valuable type
of stuff to monitor is that you can do
the model monitoring that's fine
basically there's going to be a pretty a
lot of similarity you know subtracting
out any um uh personalization there's
going to be a pretty strong correlation
between what you see in the API versus
what you see in the web UI uh when it
comes to the citations that appear uh
there is not that you can't hit an API
and get a onetoone view of what the
citations are going to look um in the
web UI. And so what that means is you
have to scrape that data. So if you
really care um what types of links and
citations uh going using chatp as an
example are using you have to be able to
get that data from the UI directly. And
you know technically they make it even
harder than it is with scrape Google. Uh
but once you do that then you can start
analyzing is that data coming from Bing?
Um are they using Bing for their live
retrieval index or are they using
something else? And in the data that
we've seen so far, it's about actually
they're actually scraping Google
themselves quite a bit, a lot more than
people thought. Um, so again, this is
getting into this kind of funnel of
visibility of like, okay, where do you
focus your efforts? Um, and again,
that's going to really uh come down to
what your uh your strategy and your
audience looks like. Mhm. It's pretty
exciting because I I believe that we're
in this era that I I I wasn't at uh
opportunely when SEO started to become a
thing. Uh when I started, we had already
overtur as a hero research tool and the
Yahoo one. But I feel that we're in this
era in this in which like everything is
starting, right? So um I'm thankful to
have access to tools like rank scale. I
think that I think that uh the founder
is here in the in the chat in the chat
p.ai AI Dejan also Dan Petrovi created
this actually free uh tool and all of
these tools in general what they give us
is okay for this prompts uh that you
give us we will tell you what is the
share of visibility and how how visible
you are for this this query versus other
players that are that you have also
specified as to be your your competitor
right and and if the sentiment is
positive it neutral negative. uh where
are this um answers coming from and uh
what are the citations right uh and
based on that you can identify okay um
um I am not being showcased here uh I
will take a look at why my competitor is
um if I can do something to close that
gap if it actually makes sense for me to
go uh around and and try to to decide
that the cover by that same website or
very similar websites in nature and
authority that the model will tend to
take into account to to for references,
right? uh but in general I believe that
the biggest difference here is the lack
of data that we have in terms of the
typical keyword research the search
volume uh and popularity that we have
had so far because that even if we
complain a lot about 100% accuracy and
so on realistically we have so many data
sources now in in SEO regarding keyword
data and queries data right and
unfortunately we don't have that type of
data yet and here the only player that I
have seen so far correct me if I am
wrong maybe there are more but so far
that I have um uh seen is a similar web
providing top prompts per they have a
new AI chat uh bot uh report in which
they provide uh not only the traffic uh
of chat bots and the split per chatbot
but also the top pages and if you click
on the pages the top prompts of the
pages so that gives you a little bit
more more of additional uh input let's
say to understand what type of prompts
you should be uh monitoring or
validating or identifying opportunities
uh for but at least I think I I think
that that will only increase and improve
in the next few months hopefully
hopefully the tools themselves or the
platforms let's say themselves start
providing more of these insights I
actually asked for it in the go central
central life event in in Madrid two two
months ago to to Joe Mueller and and he
mentioned
the concerns regarding privacy and how
the prompts so long tails so different
unlike keywords that were more head
terms and so on but even like that I
think that there should be like a a
balance there of the information that
they can provide um so there's
definitely that I think that we're only
starting and I am exciting to see that
more but yes I believe that the the
biggest challenge here is the the lack
of that uh sense of prom popularity or
the query that are particular ly
important for for in this LLM because
realistically I mean we have talk about
the difference in optimization but the
major difference that I can see
is the behavior the search behavior that
is much more conversational that is much
more longtail that uh that um multi-turn
type of interaction with the interface
uh so I expect that also once that it
becomes much more personalized
for each uh type of intent or or search
behavior that I expect that this will
all only evolve with time. uh it will
highly impact the different type of
queries that we we will see in each type
of platform and for each type of of of
intent right and it will be great to
have that source of information to
optimize further accordingly the the
same content that we have for SEO or
different content if we see that there's
much more of a of an impact or
importance of certain type of topics or
queries coming from from from a lens for
example yeah awesome right so I tell you
what I had prepared like 15 questions
and I think we've done about half of
them. But we are sorry. The thing is
it's such a it's such a it's such a new
topic. It's such a wide ranging topic.
Um we have a ton of questions from the
guests as well. So does that count? I
think that counts as well.
Right. Um we've got loads of questions
from the audience. So I think it's
really great to to try and bring as many
of them on as well. So I'll move on to
them. If we happen to get through all of
them, I can get back to my other
questions as well. Um, but I expect
there'll be some overlap as well on on
some of these as well. So, let's go
through and if anyone just want to jump
in if there's something in particular.
Um, so I'm going to go with the first
one which is do you have any ideas on
how to track visibility and referrals
from AI mode. So, we did just talk
about you know LLM in general. Um, AI
mode is so new and we don't have it in
the UK but um Ry do you do anything like
this at the moment or not? AI mode is
still pretty early. Um it's uh primarily
you have to be logged in, you know, as
well. And to Alita's point earlier,
there's no search console, you know,
enhancements or anything. Um the closest
thing that I've seen that I think we'll
probably end up seeing, and I'd love to
hear what Ela says on this as well, um
is
uh you know, like Dana, uh for example,
she's got a really good series on
tracking, um traffic from AIO's. And so
I think we'll probably end up seeing
things like that where there are
different triggers that you can find and
set things up in G4 and potentially
other analytics platforms. We're going
to be able to see some of that. Uh but
it we're going to be we're going to be
flying blind on a lot of that I think
for a while. Yeah. So so far it had
since it was in the lab on test. Uh and
yes, you had to be sign in etc. there
was no way to accurately do it. But now
that it has been publicly um um launched
let's say h I have uh no doubts that
through the Google Analytics and the the
same filters or similar filters that uh
you could apply for yeah uh AI overviews
and then also I'm pretty sure that a lot
of this um platforms that uh track click
stream data now that is an additional
tab too right very likely they should be
able to to provide this additional
information now that they couldn't
before because it was not it hadn't been
launched so far. Yep.
Okay. So, I guess a little bit of a
we'll see. Fingers crossed. Uh, okay.
So, this one's interesting. So, given
that LM access information from both
their core training data like the common
crawl and through live web searches with
the rag, what are the top actionable
strategies an SEO team should prioritize
to most effectively influence
visibility? Right. We have a whole
webinar just on this on that one topic.
Bill a brand. Build a brand. A real
brand. Real expertise. Yeah. Authority.
Yeah. I mean Bill. Okay. In the in the
Wikipedia. So this is very broad, right?
I actually have a presentation about
this that I can that I can link into uh
if that's okay. Sorry for the promo. I
mean the presentation is free of course
is about how uh to improve their uh
brand visibility and recognition. And at
that time it I it's true that I mention
it very quickly for how uh this also
play a role for for LLMs um but it was
more focus on on traditional search
results still at that point but it it is
highly aligned with that right the it
took my attention Ray I don't know if
you you saw there's a it was during a a
few months ago there was this big
conversation that um happened about the
importance of structured data uh for a
lens. Patrick, you see it? Did you see
it? We were we were did a verb. We did a
web. It was true. It was true. It was it
was you too. So it was funny how
eventually at some point it was again uh
it was John Mueller I believe at the
cool sessions of life in New York the
first one that they did of the series
confirming that yes it is important they
they use it. I mean honestly the more
seniors you can provide uh I was I was
going to say to Google, but LLMs in
general about your entities, what
matters to you, who are you in your
website or elsewhere consistently, it's
like in SEO, right? The alignment of
emails, not one thing or the other that
will allow them to recognize you, what
what you stand for and and uh where you
should be showcasing. the more uh in in
that regard um for especially for
training purposes the better I get
because that that part of like the the
the presence that we have had so far for
traditional search results that will end
up impacting through um rack 2 etc
rounding etc indeed I think that most of
us already knows the importance too
uh yeah I know for sure Um, okay. So,
let's leave that one there because
again, we could we could spend forever
on that one.
Um, so what else have we
got? So, how do you track
mentions or
links topics? So, all right. Um, uh, is
this similar to what Dixon's new tool
does? Um, uh, which is called
WK AI knows about you. That's what it is
designed for. It's it's very specific,
right? It's trying to do this stuff.
I'll find a link for it. Uh, anything
else? Sorry to answer that question.
Well, when you say links, I think this
is talking about citations uh, that we
were mentioning before. Is that Yeah.
Okay. So, um, and those are really the
two main things because with any
response, you're going to have obviously
the response text and then you're going
to have the citation links peppered
throughout those. And so, brand mentions
are going to be in the response text.
Um, and then potentially also on if you
care about getting how your brand is
mentioned on those citation links beyond
that point. Um, and we are starting to
see a lot more people very interested in
that uh because they want to see what's
influencing the models uh back at the
the way that they're selecting this
data. Yeah, you know, and so um it
becomes a a really big tracking side of
things. You have to get a little bit
strategic, I think, both as a you know,
for us as a platform provider, but also
as a a brand on how far deep you want to
go because you just keep going uh down
that tree. Uh but um you know, there's I
think there's going to be a lot of
tools. This is definitely something
we're working on. Um all the citation
tracking is is a really hot topic for
people right now. Yeah, per do this um
very well, very enterpriseoriented. also
all the tools that are newcomers like WK
is rank scale peak.ai to they do this.
So there there's a variety of tools that
you can definitely check out and test
and yeah use the one that better fits uh
your preferences for jet and so on.
Awesome. Okay,
so the next one do you care I mean we're
going to have another it depends. Do you
care about tracking your products
visibility as e-commerce?
Yeah, I think should I mean it, you
know, it's
uh this is where people are going to be
shopping. So, uh we started getting
pretty granular on a lot of the prompt
research that we were doing for um some
large uh shoe brands. And um it was
pretty interesting to see when you look
at the competitive view um the types of
the level of detail that these um answer
engines are surfacing for individual
products. And uh again it you have to
think about whether or not you care
about the foundational model and the
mentions within that versus the
citations. But I I definitely think you
should care about it. And then it's
going to be a question of how are you
going to track that trans transaction
and you know performance and all that.
Like all that's going to be stuff that
has to get worked out over the next
couple
years.
Cool. Okay, what else we
got? Ah, so right. So, continuing how
much AI is changing at the moment as it
matures, should we just stop trying to
second guess what's going to work for
organic search and focus on long-term
brand building for now?
Not really. I believe that uh there's a
very big overlap, right? There was this
big conversation the other day. we
should stop even calling ourselves SEOs
or something else. For me, we're we're
uh findability experts and optimizers
and we like like people who who choose
to because their audience is there to
optimize primarily for Tik Tok or for
YouTube or for other platforms ser
features and and uh now most uh of our
of our users are expected to start using
this new platforms to search. uh we need
to apply many of the principles that
we're already applying to to SEO. It's
not only brand building, it's also
probability and indexability. It's about
understanding and and improving the the
well the the semantic relevance of of
the content to connect with the the the
user search behavior that might or might
not be different different.
Realistically what I see that the
biggest chance that there would be might
be this like the impact on the search
behavior and and the the type of yeah
questions of queries that are searching
one or the other depending on the
preferences and the evolution of the
interfaces too. Uh but I believe that
there's a very big overlap 95% of
overlap pretty much at this point on the
principles of optimization. Yeah I I
would certainly agree with that. you
know, you still need the the strong
technical foundation at the beginning.
All of the sort of digital PR type work,
you know, traditional link building
mentions that you get as a result of
that is all going to help train the
models, you know, the co-itations being
mentioned, the topic modeling, all of it
just makes sense that it's all going to
work together. So, I don't I don't think
uh I don't think we should we should
just should just stop, you know,
worrying about it.
All right, so we've got four minutes
left, so I'm just going to try and
answer these questions in order because
we've got loads. Um, so is there are
there any con any ideas for content
writers to approach content moving
forward, especially in your money, your
life
industries? I mean, this is kind of
where we started, I suppose. Is it just
brand focus now and assisting versus
answering?
Um, I don't really see that as a
dichotomy, you know, like it's you have
to kind of do it all. There's not really
like, okay, we're just going to do
brand. Kind of like the previous
question, like, okay, we're just not
going to just do brand only and ignore
everything else. It doesn't really make
sense. Um, managing a brand on a digital
level, you have to uh be very granular
and you have to cover a lot of bases and
you have to know what your footprint
looks like. You have to know what your
competitor's footprint looks like and
make sure that you're getting good
feedback from all the different channels
that you care about. Um, so it's
becoming a lot more complicated right
now, but I do see a lot of this tendency
to kind of uh, you know, to to Jojo's
point, throw the baby out with the
bathwater and just be like, "Okay, we're
just going to do this one thing because
it sounds like the top priority right
now." But I think it's really important
to educate executive teams on the fact
that we are in this transition stage
from where things used to be to where
where it's going to be. And we're not I
don't think anyone can claim to 100%
understand what it's going to look like
5 years from now. But um it's going to
be a lot of changes and you have to be
able to manage a lot of different things
and uh avoid you know this sort of
dialectical approach as much as
possible. Yeah 100% agree. I mean we
need we will need to write uh for what
our audiences are searching uh in the
platforms where we really want to be
found because we see that there's a the
engage uh high higher engagement or
these are the platforms that our
potential customers are actually using
to to look for information services or
products like the ones that we can offer
at this point. This is since how new
LLMs are. We can see that the these are
pretty muchformational queries out there
like it's still very simplistics about
assisting on on research around topics
and so on. So um I expect that this
evolves a lot with new features, new
integrations, new interfaces and so on.
Yeah. Um so yeah I I I I can only expect
this to evolve and uh at the end of the
day is about creating information and
fulfilling the needs of our users
through the whole customer journey. So
even if at some point in the future LL
for some reason are only um used for
certain edge cases or use cases or
particular scenarios right that doesn't
mean that you won't write about
everything else right because at the end
of the day your actual outcomes should
to sell and and very likely you will
need that information to exist on your
website for other reasons also to rank
in traditional search result platforms
too. So yes there's definitely that. So
I I I will say to see it with a much
more holistic approach. Yeah. Yeah. I
think I think we're at that inflection
point like K mentioned at the beginning
like you you're going to need to be open
and agile in terms of the business model
you're using. How do we actually
monetize? It's going to change. It's
absolutely going to change. Right. It's
4:59. So we have time for one question
if I'm really quick. Well, if you're
really quick. Right. So this is I don't
know if there's a good answer to this
one, but Google's AI mode has just
released in the US. When do you predict
this might be rolled out to the rest of
the world? Any ideas?
Six to nine months. We usually see we do
a lot of work in Japan and um in Europe
outside of the US and uh it generally
seems to be everything's like six to
nine months behind. Yeah. Before the end
of the year, very likely if all evolves
as they expect, right? It might be some
if it it's not then maybe um a little
bit longer. that if it all goes as they
expect and predict and can control the
evolution of it without harming their
the clicks on ads and impressions and
ads pretty much. Um yeah before the end
of the year very likely I expect. Yeah.
Awesome. So we do have a clear answer on
that. Definitely six to or dot dot dot.
It
depends. Right. So that's all we got
time for today folks. Uh, thank you ever
so much for watching and for your
fantastic questions and huge thanks of
course go to Ray and Ala for so
generously giving their time and
expertise. Um, we'll be emailing out the
recording tomorrow. So to everyone who
registered, so if you missed the start,
don't worry, you can catch up. And a
reminder that this time next week you
can catch that site master class on
checking LLM accessibility and
indexibility signals with sitebulb. Uh,
we I think Jojo can put the link in the
chat again for that one. Um, and
finally, uh, you're the first to be
invited to June's webinar, which is all
about brand SEO and its importance as
generative search becomes the norm. So,
everything we talked about today. Um, so
the link for that is also hopefully in
the chat. Uh, so hopefully see you there
and thanks again for watching. Thank you
very much for everything. Have a good
day. Bye-bye. Talk later. Bye.